---
layout: post
title: "fartlek"
description: "lial lia lia"
keywords: "dummy content, lorem ipsum"
---



### Uno

When I lived in Norway I was taught that fartlek was totally intuitive or instinctive. There was no set schedule other than starting off easier and picking up the pace with shorter quicker distances as you went. The determining factors were how you felt at the time along with the terrain and footing. The way I was coached you would determine the success of a particular fartlek training session by how you felt at the completion. You should feel invigorated and not exhausted. Obviously this is not something you learn overnight and I believe some people never learn how to take full advantage of what fartlek has to offer. 
As a sidebar, I believe there is something lost in the English translation. In Norway and Sweden there was as much emphasis on "lek" or play, as there was on "fart", speed or motion. In Norwegian or Swedish, fart is a word used to describe motion, and it can be either slow, fast or any velocity in between. The word for "speed" in Norwegian is "hurtig" or "hurtighet". So to be correctly translated, from a running perspective, the English term should actually be "motion" or "velocity variation" play.
All the best. - Bartman

### Stereo

Psychologically, it might train you to be more spontaneous, and gravitate towards paces based on how you feel, rather than some predetermined formula. This gives you a chance to take it easy if you need to, and trains you to listen to your body.


### trio

We just let the body run at the pace it wants to run. It's this lack of control -- or "pushing" -- that gives the run its "easy" quality. Like a raft on a river, we just float on the current. We don't fight it. Just let it flow. Usually the flow of the river begins pretty placidly, but picks up some steam as the body warms up. And then there are those days where the river -- for whatever reason -- is really pumping, and  the raft ends up catching with a swift current, and we flow along with new paces.

### Quattro

During the week, I only have an hour to get in my twice weekly fast workouts, so I'll usually run them as a fartlek or progression run. I go with those because they are more about effort rather than running a certain pace. I don't have enough time to warm-up enough to be ready to chase a certain pace, so I stick with the fartleks and progressions because I focus more on staying fast and relaxed on those and don't really pay attention to the speed
